welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
memoirs of a geisha
[Music]
in 1929 shio sakamoto
a young girl living in a poor fishing
village by the sea
is sold to a geisha house by her father
alongside her sister
satsu so that they might send money back
home
shio is taken in by kyoko nida the
mother
proprietor of a geisha house in miyake
in kyoto
whereas satsu deemed too unattractive
is sent to a brothel instead chio meets
granny and auntie the other women who
run the house
and the okia's only work in geisha
hatsumomo
who is beautiful but cruel chio meets
another young girl nicknamed pumpkin
who she becomes friends with hatsumomo
quickly becomes jealous of chio
seeing her as a potential rival and
intimidates chio into acting as her
servant and doing anything she says
sheo and pumpkin soon begin training as
geisha at a nearby school
alongside hundreds of other girls one
night
hatsumomo returning drunk from a night
out
forces chio to destroy a kimono
belonging to mameha
hatsumomo's geisha rival before
returning it to her house
mameha catches chio who is blamed for
its destruction and punished by being
lashed
and is told that she now owes the okiya
even more money
on top of her purchase price and the
cost of her geisha training
following a tip from hatsumomo who hopes
chio will run away forever
shio sneaks out of the house and finds
her sister satsu in the red light
district
they make plans to run away the
following night
when chio returns to the okiya that
night she finds
hatsumomo having sex with her boyfriend
koichi
whom she is not supposed to be seeing
when cut koichi runs away and hatsumomo
lies
blaming chio for stealing and attempting
to run away
however mother still forbids hatsumomo
from seeing koichi again
with everyone barred from leaving the
okiya at night except to attend work
engagements
the next night shio sneaks out to meet
satsu and accidentally falls off a
rooftop
causing serious injury mother stops
investing in chio's geisha training and
instead makes her a servant to the okia
to pay off her debts
mother then tells chio that her parents
have died
shio never sees satsu again
one day while crying on a riverbank went
out on an errand
chio is noticed by chairman ken iwamura
and his geisha companions
he buys her a shaved ice dessert and
gives her his handkerchief and some
money
inspired by his act of kindness sheo
resolves to become a geisha so that she
might become a part of the chairman's
life
several years later pumpkin debuts as a
maiko
an apprentice geisha under hatsumomo's
tutelage
shortly afterwards she was taken under
the wing of mameha
who persuades mother to reinvest in
chio's geisha training
promising to pay her twice over after
her debut
shio becomes a maiko and takes the name
of sayuri
mameha introduces sayuri to the chairman
and to shikazu nobu
the chairman's business partner at a
sumo match
nobu takes a liking to her though sayuri
prefers the chairman
to increase her popularity mameha
orchestrates the bidding war for
sayuri's masuage
after which she will become a full
geisha
hatsumomo starts spreading rumors that
sayuri has already lost her virginity
making it difficult to secure bidders
to counter this mameha arranges for
sayuri to perform as the lead dancer for
a popular dance performance
enraging hatsumoma with jealousy
sayuri's performance attracts the
attention of several men
including the baron mamey has donna
when dr crabb congratulates sayuri at
the after party
she convinces him not to listen to
hatsumano's lies
the baron later invites her to come to
his estate for a cherry blossom viewing
party
when the baron presents a kimono to
sayuri in private
he undresses her against her will but
does not go any further
sayuri's mizuage is one with a
record-breaking bid of
15 000 yen mother decides to name her as
her adopted daughter and the heiress to
the okia
crushing pumpkin and enraging hatsumono
when returning home from the ma sewage
ceremony
sayuri finds a drunken hat simono in her
room
where she has found the chairman's
handkerchief
the two fight in a gas lantern is
knocked over
igniting a fire the okiya is saved and
hatsumomo is banished from gion
her fate is left uncertain
sayuri's successful career is cut short
by the outbreak of world war
ii in 1944 working geisha districts are
closed
with many of kion's geisha evacuated
elsewhere
the chairman sends mameha to work as an
assistant for a doctor
while he sends sayuri to the countryside
where she works for a kimono maker
after the war ends nobu asks sayuri to
help him impress an american colonel who
could approve funding for their business
sayuri reunites with mameha who
reluctantly agrees to help sayuri
impress the colonel
sayuri is reacquainted with pumpkin who
is now working as an escort
sayuri travels with nobu the chairman
mameha pumpkin and the american soldiers
to the umami islands
the colonel propositions sayuri but she
rejects him
nobu confronts sayuri after seeing the
proposition
and confesses his desire to become her
donna
sayori devises a plan to have nobu catch
her being intimate with the colonel
hoping that he will lose his feelings
for her and enlists pumpkin's help to do
so
however pumpkin's resentment of sayuri
leads her to bring the chairman
instead when sayuri confronts her
pumpkin coldly tells her that she acted
in revenge of sayuri's adoption
after returning to miyake sayuri
receives a summons from a nearby
tea house expecting nobu
sayuri is instead surprised to see the
chairman
who confesses that he always knew of her
identity
but refused to interfere with nobu's
feelings out of respect
the chairman also tells sayuri of having
organized for mameha to become her
mentor
sayuri confesses her love to the
chairman and they share a kiss
before taking a quiet stroll through the
tea house garden
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
you